# What is a Text Editor

A text editor is a piece of software that you download and install on your computer, or you access online through your web browser, that allows you to write and manage text, especially the text that you write to build a web site. The text editor has to be one of the most important tools you can use as an aspiring web developer.
What features should you look for in a text editor? I would say some of the most important features are: 1.) code completion; 2.) syntax highlighting; 3.) a nice variety of themes (to reduce eye strain and fatigue); and 4.) the ability to choose from a healthy selection of extensions available when you need them. You might find some other features that are must-have’s, but I think these features are a good start.
A great feature of any text editing software is code completion. Code completion allows you to start typing, and the code completion feature will display possible suggestions based on what you originally typed. This saves you time by providing a choice, rather than allowing you to finish typing and possibly encounter typos.
Also, some code completion includes the closing of tags when you open them, or the closing of brackets when you open them, or the
closing of quotation marks when you open them, thus making sure you’re always writing your code.
Another nice feature is being able to write your HTML and CSS more efficiently. There is a kind of shorthand language called Emmet that can help. Emmet will speed up your code writing faster than you can imagine. Some text editors come with Emmet built right in, or Emmet can be added by the means of an extension.
Another feature you should definitely look into is called syntax highlighting. Syntax highlighting is a feature that takes the text you type, and makes it more noticeable by colorizing the text. Attributes are a different color than elements. And elements are a different color than copy. This makes it so much easier when you’re looking for an error and you can’t find it. As well as making your text easier to read.
The next feature that you should look for in a text editor is a nice series of themes. These themes will allow you to change the color of the background of your text editor, the series of colors in your text, and sometimes themes will affect other aspects of your text editing software as well. Usually, web developers use a dark background and brightly colored text. This combination seems to be easier on the eyes — but there are other themes to choose from as well. Since you’ll be using your text editor most of the time, it’s good to find a theme that might reduce eye strain and fatigue.
As you become more familiar with coding, you may want to add more features to your text editor. You’ll want to accomplish more with minimal effort. You want a text editor that can grow with you as your needs grow. This comes in the form of extensions. Extensions are like plugins for your text editor, that allow you to have superpowers that you wouldn’t have otherwise. A text editor that has a great selection of extension will ensure that you have the ability to add functionality as you need it.

# Different Text Editors

* Notepad | TextWrangler/BB Edit | Visual Studio Code

